#summary Summary of changes in Arduino 1.0.

=Download=

A beta version of Arduino 1.0 is available:

  * Windows: http://files.arduino.cc/downloads/arduino-1.0-beta1.zip
  * Mac OS X: http://files.arduino.cc/downloads/arduino-1.0-beta1.dmg
  * Linux (32-bit): http://files.arduino.cc/downloads/arduino-1.0-beta1.tgz
  * Linux (64-bit): http://files.arduino.cc/downloads/arduino-1.0-beta1-64.tgz
  * Source: http://files.arduino.cc/downloads/arduino-1.0-beta1-src.tar.gz

=Environment (IDE)=

  * New file extension (.ino).
  * New toolbar icons: checkmark (verify) and arrow (upload).  (Nicholas Zambetti)
  * New color scheme, document icon, about image (!ToDo).
  * Support for uploading sketches from within the IDE: hold shift while clicking upload or select "Upload Using Programmer" from the File menu.
  * Verbose output (during compilation or uploading) now enabled from within the preferences dialog.

=Language (API)=

  * Switching to non-blocking Serial writes with a transmit buffer.
  * Serial.flush() now waits for transmission of outgoing data rather than discarding received incoming data.
  * Reimplementation of the !SoftwareSerial library to support multiple ports (!NewSoftSerial by Mikal Hart).
  * Removed Matrix and Sprite libraries.
  * Serial.print(byte) now prints the digits of the number as characters; use write() to send as a single byte.
  * Removed the ability to say "client == NULL" or "client != NULL" from Ethernet library; use "if (client)" or "if (!client)" instead.
  * Reimplementation of String class (Paul Stoffregen + additional modifications).
  * Added support for Flash-based strings using the F("string") syntax.
  * Added DHCP and DNS support to the Ethernet library (integration by Adrian !McEwen).
  * Modified UDP API.
  * Addition of IPAddress class (Adrian !McEwen).
  * Modified Wire library to inherit from Stream (use read(), write(), print(), println(), etc).
  * Adding support for multiple open files and directory iteration in SD card library (Limor Fried).
  * Added serialEvent() function, called automatically on reception of serial data if it exists.  Also, serialEvent1(), serialEvent2(), and serialEvent3() on the Mega.

=Internals=

  * Renamed WProgram.h to Arduino.h.
  * Pin definitions separated from the core and stored in new pins/ sub-directory.  Specified by the _BOARD_.build.pins preference in boards.txt.