#summary Instructions for building the Arduino development environment from source.

= Steps for First Time Setup =

== 1. Install Development Tools ==

=== Windows ===

On Windows, install Cygwin. It's downloadable from www.cygwin.com or specifically: www.cygwin.com/setup.exe

Of the packages, begin with the defaults, and add:
  * svn - used for version control
  * make, gcc-mingw, and g++ - used to build arduino.exe (this will also pull in gcc-core)
  * perl - use this version, activestate or other distros have trouble
  * unzip, zip - for dealing with archives

Included in the defaults, but make sure:
  * coreutils (or textutils), gzip, tar

Not required but useful: 
  * openssh - command line ssh client
  * nano - handy/simple text editor

And be sure to leave the option selected for 'unix line endings' 

the cygwin installer is sometimes a little flakey, so it may take more 
than one try to get everything in there. in fact, it's often best to
run the installer once, and let it install all its defaults, then run 
it again, and select the items above. it's also useful to run the 
installer every few months to keep things fresh.


=== Mac OS X ===
On Mac OS X, install Apple's Developer Tools and subversion.

=== Linux ===
On Linux, you need the Sun Java SDK, avr-gcc, make, and subversion.


== 2. Grab the code from Google ==

this grabs the code as an anonymous user. 

{{{
# grab the code, it'll take a while
svn checkout http://arduino.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ arduino
# (maybe even a long while for you dialup and international folks)
}}}

== 3. Build It ==

Use the command line.

{{{
# on Windows
cd /path/to/arduino/build/windows

# or Mac OS X
cd /path/to/arduino/build/macosx

# or if you're on linux
cd /path/to/arduino/build/linux

# and then..
./make.sh

# if everything went well, you'll have no errors. (feel free to make
# suggestions for things to include here for common problems)

# then to run it
./run.sh

# each time you make a change, use make to build the thing 
# and run to get it up and running. 
}}}

= Updating to the Latest Version =


Each time you want to update to latest version from svn:

{{{
cd /path/to/arduino
svn update
}}}

If new folders have been added, or you're gettin odd errors, use:

{{{
# remove the work directory
rm -rf work
}}}